File integration (#638)
aerogear/mobile-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/sync/js-client-files.adoc

= File Upload Client

{sync-client} provides support for uploading binary data along with the GraphQL queries.

> Implementation is relying on `apollo-upload-client` package build by Apollo community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file implementation uses the `apollo-upload-client` package built by the Apollo community.
```

== Introduction

> The upload functionality using the GraphQL multipart form requests specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The upload functionality uses the GraphQL multipart form requests specification.
```

The File Upload needs to be implemented on both server and client:

1) On the client HTML FileList objects are mapped into a mutation and sent to the server in a multipart request.

2) On the server: The multipart request is handled. The server processes it and provides an upload argument to a resolver. 
In the resolver function, the upload promise resolves an object.

NOTE: File upload is based on link:https://github.com/jaydenseric/graphql-multipart-request-spec[graphql-multipart-request-spec]

== Enabling File Upload 

File upload feature needs to be enabled by passing `fileUpload` flag to config object:

[source, javascript]
----

const config = {
  ...
  fileUpload: true
  ...
};

//create a new client
----

= Uploading files from GraphQL 

File upload capability adds new GraphQL scalar `Upload` that can be used for mutations that operate on binary data.
`Upload` scalar maps html `FileList` HTML5 object in GraphQL schemas. 
The first step required to work with binary uploads is to write mutation that will contain `Upload` scalar:

> 

Reviewer 2: The following example demonstrates how to upload a profile picture for the showcase app?

= File Upload Client

{sync-client} provides support for uploading binary data along with the GraphQL queries.
The binary upload implementation uses the `apollo-upload-client` package built by the Apollo community.

== Introduction

The upload functionality uses the GraphQL multipart form requests specification.

> The File Upload needs to be implemented on both server and client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The File upload needs to be implemented on both server and client:
```

1) On the client HTML FileList objects are mapped into a mutation and sent to the server in a multipart request.

2) On the server: The multipart request is handled. The server processes it and provides an upload argument to a resolver. 
In the resolver function, the upload promise resolves an object.

NOTE: File upload is based on link:https://github.com/jaydenseric/graphql-multipart-request-spec[graphql-multipart-request-spec]

== Enabling File Upload 

File upload feature needs to be enabled by passing `fileUpload` flag to config object:

[source, javascript]
----

const config = {
  ...
  fileUpload: true
  ...
};

//create a new client
----

> = Uploading files from GraphQL 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Uploading Files from GraphQL 
```

> File upload capability adds new GraphQL scalar `Upload` that can be used for mutations that operate on binary data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File upload capability adds a new GraphQL scalar `Upload` that can be used for mutations that operate on binary data.
```

> `Upload` scalar maps html `FileList` HTML5 object in GraphQL schemas. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Upload` scalar maps html `FileList` HTML5 object in GraphQL schemas. 
```

The first step required to work with binary uploads is to write mutation that will contain `Upload` scalar.
The following example demonstrates how to upload a profile picture:

[source, javascript]
----

const config = {
    import gql from 'graphql-tag'
    import { Mutation } from 'react-apollo'

    export const UPLOAD_PROFILE = gql`
    mutation changeProfilePicture($file: Upload!) {
        changeProfilePicture(file: $file) {
            ...UserFragment
        }
    }
    `;
----

== Executing mutations

> `Upload` scalar will be mapped  to object returned from HTML file input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Upload` scalar will be mapped  to object returned from HTML file input.
```

> Single file upload example for React client will look like follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows file upload in a React application.
```
